>> Mike North: What we're gonna
do next is deal with the idea
of handling user interactions.
So if you've used Ember before,
this is something called actions, and
in Ember Octane,
they've been radically simplified.
They're much easier to work with.
We're gonna primarily be
working in the login form.
And so what we wanna do is when
the user clicks the Sign In button,
we wanna log the currently selected user,
right?
Log back to the console, and then proceed
to the logged in page, right, slash teams.
In order to do this, I'm going to
take our login HPS which currently,
there's just a bunch of HTML in there.
There are no components yet.
And we're gonna take this, and
sort of move it all into a dedicated
component where we can handle an action.
Increasingly, the best practice is,
you wanna handle all of your actions
in components whenever possible.
It is like,
it's possible to handle them in other
types of objects,
like routes or, controllers.
But increasingly, this things are heavily
de-emphasized, and we just wanna keep as
much of our complexity as
possible in the component layer.
This is setting you up for
better performance and more manageability,
more opportunities for lazy loading, etc.
So let's begin by
generating this component.
>> Mike North: Login form,
Ember generate component login form.
>> Mike North: And just like earlier in
the day, we're gonna grab all these handle
bars, find the template that corresponds
to this new component we've just created.
Login form HBS and
replace the contents of login form with
everything that used to be in login HBS.
Then we'll go back to log in HBS and
refer to our component,
>> Mike North: And
we see exactly the same
thing on the screen,
the only difference is we've just moved
all of that stuff into the component.
Now this is the first time we've
used EmberG to generate a component.
Earlier, we we're just
manually creating HBS files.
What we get as a result of doing
that is a couple other files.
And I can't find the output here,
there it is.
So we can see number one,
we get the component itself.
Sorry, that's a JavaScript module for
the component,
this is the first time we've seen this.
We get the handlebars file that we
just pasted a bunch of HTML into.
And we got an integration test which works
exactly the same way as our format
timestamp integration test.
Set up a scenario with
a little handle bar snippet,
assert on the HTML after
it's done laundering.
So, what we wanna do is listen for when
someone has logged in, people have ideas
for what we should listen to and where.
Let me bring up the HTML
to make that kinda clear.
>> Mike North: So, we've got a div up
here, another div looks like just for
formatting.
Here we have a form,
we've got a select and
then an input with a submit at the bottom.
Do we have more than one option or
just one option?
What kind of DOM event
should we listen to?
>> Speaker 2: Form on submit.
>> Mike North: Form on submit.
I like it.
I like it because that handle's
clicking on the submit button.
That might handle like,
if I am in an input.
And I hit like command,
enter or something.
It seems like it handles all of
the cases that might sort of
merge into submitting a form.
I like it.
So, let's do that, and
I'm going to close login HBS.
And get this components JavaScript module
that's an app components login-form.js.
And I wanna just have these two
on the screen at the same time so
that we can kinda work
with both of them here.
So, what I wanna do is have a function
that is called when the forms
submit event is fired.
>> Mike North: OnLoginFormSubmit, and
this is gonna receive a DOM event.
And we're not using TypeScript here but
we can get some nice
autocomplete off awesomeness by
just commenting our code properly.
So I can say that evt,
it is a event who's target, this
is totally optional,
is a HTML FormElement.
It's just to make it so
the autocomplete works very, very nicely.
>> Mike North: And in here,
I’m just gonna put a debugger.
So we can see what happens, right?
So there, we’ve got our function.
Now the way we hook this function up
to this particular DOM event is using
something called a modifier.
So we dealt with helpers before.
You can recognize a modifier because
it’s always used in what we call
HTML element space.
And that means it’s kind of just
floating in a DOM tag like this, right?
We’re not doing, on click equals this.
It’s just sort of there,
side-by-side with the form tag name.
You can put it anywhere in there and
some attributes before, and
some attributes after.
But that's how you can recognize that
this is a modifier and not a helper.
They only are used in this particular
space and the other placement is invalid.
And this modifier is called on.
>> Mike North: So on we pass an event
to listen to, submit as Seth said,
and then we're going to
pass it the function.
Passing the function by value,
onLoginFormSubmit.
Now whenever I use this dot.
This dot onLoginFormSubmit,
that is a sure indicator,
just from looking at the template.
I can tell you that is referring
to something that is defined
in the JavaScript module
of this component.
It makes it really easy to
disambiguate between things like this
that we were looking at earlier
when we used title and description,
and the header of the channel, right?
This, we know that the @ sign,
that's an indication
it's coming from the outside and
being passed into the component.
This is most certainly not being
passed into the component.
It is definitely defined on
the component's JavaScript module itself.
So this is one of the things
that has improved in templates.
We can look at these things and
understand where the data is coming from.
>> Speaker 3: Is there no more
implied this component templates?
>> Mike North: So,
it will lead you into a troublesome place.
And here's some examples of
where that will snag you.
If you have a template only component,
there is no this, and so.
>> Mike North: You can end up with some
kind of cryptic errors simply because
you're trying to access
a property off of undefined.
It doesn't really give you a good
place to track down where the things
are coming from.
So, what I recommend is using
that Ember template linter.
So that implied this is
bend in glimmer components.
Template only glimmer components and
regular glimmer components with
a JavaScript module behind them.
It is not removed or
deprecated because the older Ember
component model which we're not
talking about at all today.
That we still need to maintain, right?
These are not breaking changes at all.
But, in order to set yourself up for
an easy path forward,
do not assume an implied this,
the best way to handle things.
This comes in from the outside.
This is provided by the component itself.
And there are cases where you
will see neither of these two.
And that usually means that there's
some kind of callback involved,
where you're sort of
inside an inner scope.
It's almost like a function
being passed a local argument.
And only within a particular chunk of your
handlebars will you be able to do this.
And those who have Ember experience
already, each is what I'm referring to.
The looping construct in Ember templates,
which we will get to properly later on.